Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course in this lecture.
We're going to go over what makes a great job description.
Now your job description is going to be different than say documentation's or specification sheets you
make these I like to think of them kind of like a description of your project from 10000 feet.
There are certain things you want to absolutely put in here and certain things you definitely want to
leave out.
Now there's a lot of different things we've noticed over our experience that contractors and freelancers
really like and they really respond to.
So we're going to go over those.
Going to go over some of the mistakes that you might make if you did this on your own.
So let's go to screencast.
All right.
So we are back.
So now we're going to talk about writing the perfect description for these posting platforms.
Now there's one thing that I need to point out which is that all of these posting pop forums have their
own kind of personality.
They have their own freelancer base and each one's freelancer base is a little bit different than the
other ones.
Now does that bleed over into the description you're about to write.
No actually it really doesn't.
And I know a lot of people find that a little surprising but in my experience there really is no difference.
I think that what you should be aware of is that freelancer in general is best for short term projects
things that can be done very quickly are not nearly as complicated.
They have a lot of ways specifically or people that are really really trying to work for cheap.
If you write a description for your job post and you write it for Elance which is more detail more thoughtful
more professional and you person freelance or just be aware that they're probably not going to read
the entirety of the post.
But it's not really a loss to you just be aware that typically freelancer posts are shorter.
There's really no way to optimize in a way that you can make it fit for every single platform.
So what I say is just optimize for Elance they're the best.
They're the ones you're going to get the best bids from and then just post them to the other Web sites.
OK.
So in the last lecture we talked about how to build the perfect title.
We talked about using perks making sure that you list out specific skills making sure that you set a
barrier to certain freelancers who you don't want bidding and how to attract the ones that you do want.
So really the description is kind of an extension of that.
We are going to focus more on depth.
We're going to focus a little bit more on elaborating what we mean by the perks above.
But there's one thing that you do need to be aware of when you're writing your scription descriptions
are the high level description.
OK what I mean by that.
Now if say you're building an iOS mobile app so you're building a web site some internal application
whatever it is.
These things can be very very complex and there's a lot of detail to describe them with.
If you were trying to be true to the idea you would try to describe them as much detail as possible.
This is not the place to do that when you write a description.
You are writing to just give the thought like what they call that the 10000 foot description you're
trying to give the summation of what it is and not get into the nitty gritty because people are not
going to read it.
OK.
So the way that I write these in the way that we sprint cake write these in the way that we've been
very very effective at getting quality freelancers in a lot of them is that we follow a very simple
framework and this is how we have it set up.
It's what why how specs works.
So this is what works for us in our experience.
When you write a description you want to write something that's anywhere from say a half page to a page.
You can go shorter.
However what happens when you write a very short description is you're kind of setting the tone for
the project.
People who see that this is a professional project see that you're taking it seriously see that you
put thought into it well subconsciously or consciously return the favor and they'll put more effort
into it as well.
So shoot for a minimum of say 250 words to 500 words.
I wouldn't necessarily go over that because I need to don't run out of things to say and I wouldn't
go under that because you're definitely leaving something out.
So the way that this framework works is very simple what exactly you think we're going to ascribe what
it is that we are doing just as simple as possible someone to ask you what it is.
What are you building.
How would you describe it to them.
So let's say that we are building that dating iOS app.
I would say we're building a dating application that works on your iPhone and the way that it works
is this.
And when I describe how X I just give the high level how and I sum this up in two to three sentences
it's kind of like the elevator description if you're not familiar with an elevator pitch what that means
is if you are standing in an elevator with someone and you had to describe something in 30 seconds how
would you describe it.
So that's what the what is.
It's very technical.
No sales nothing you're not really trying to motivate anyone to understand what it is.
Moving on to why this is something that you can leave out.
But this is something that I prefer to put into it because I like contractors who have some kind of
a connection to the project.
I like people who understand the reason why we're building something.
I like people who can connect with it on a different level other than hey I need to pay rent this month.
So what I do is I do Y and I don't pay a lot of time in this.
I just put a sentence or two sentences.
Help people understand that is a good idea or help them understand why this is a problem.
Typically when someone is looking at a project and they have a connection to why it makes sense and
they have a feeling that this is going to be a successful project you'll get more quality responses
you'll get people who are more interested in it in an intrinsic way and not just for the money.
And that is quite important to getting high quality contractors moving on to how the way that Howe works
is you just kind of list out.
I usually just list off how it works now not from a technical perspective.
I don't say that I want you to make this in Reno write it in Java in X code or you know this is how
the back end works.
The other database functions you're basic going to say from a user perspective this is how it works.
If I were to describe a dating application I could say you know user logs in and sees this.
They see my page.
They create a profile they log in with Facebook once they've logged in with Facebook they can type in
their criteria see a list of two to three people per day and receive an e-mail notification of you know
their matches for the day.
OK.
That is sufficient for the how anyone who a developer or anyone who's even a designer is going to want
to know in the first you know two to three minutes of them hearing this idea or reading about this idea
how exactly you envision it working now then pass that I put in specs and what I mean by specifications
is what specifically I should actually call this specifics.
But I put specs to be sure not to be confused with specs that you're going to attach to your project.
But I mean specifics so what is specific about the project and what do you specifically need from contractors.
Now remember in the previous lecture we talked about maybe I specifically need an Iowa developer Maybe
I specifically need someone who works for this framework maybe I specifically need someone who works
with a certain language or a certain technology.
So in specifics I would list those out what you can do is.
I also sometimes will call a suction parameters and parameters means that this is where I'm going to
put in specific requirements for it.
So specifically you need to use this language specifically.
It needs to output this you know say like certain X amount of matches per day.
Specifically it needs to load quickly.
Specifically these are things that I'm very particular about and I'll show you one.
All right description for this theoretical idea and I will show you what some examples of those would
be.
Now the last one are perks now.
Perks are written at the very end.
Perks are exactly what we talked about before.
Now we're going to Labrie where we take every single perk that we listed and now we put a sentence about
it.
Right.
So if it says Simple well explain why it is simple why do you know that it's simple.
And if you said something like right now well you need to describe why is it that you need this to be
done right now.
What kind of bonus or what kind of incentive is there to getting it done right now.
If he said that this is a long term project or you said this has repeat work please explain in this
section why does it have repeat work.
What does that mean what do they mean by that.
This is where people kind of go from so say they read in your title Long-Term position or so they say
repeat work.
They go ooh I'd like to have a client that gives me repeat work that's great right because I had to
spend less time finding clients and more time working.
Then they go into the project description and they want to read about what do you mean.
I mean how often do you have these projects.
How big are the projects what kind of a bar do I have to jump over for you to be you know to approve
me and to give me lots of projects.
This is where you're going to elaborate on that.
And then the last thing that's listed in this but it's not included in the framework because this is
just something that you should do regardless is put instructions of the variant instructions are things
like Please respond with this information please let me know if you're available please message me if
you have any questions.
Things like this and we're going to cover this later in the course why we use these directives in job
descriptions because what it does is it essentially isolates the people who are paying attention the
ones who are responsive against the people who are just auto bidding just bidding all day long they're
not even thinking about the projects.
So we want to separate out the good ones from the bad ones and directives are a very easy way of doing
that but I'm not going to I'm not going to touch on that too much because in later lecture we're going
to talk in-depth about directives why they work what do I mean by them what are some examples of them.
There are techniques that not every single person uses.
And it's really up to use We're going to cover those later.
But this is the basic framework what why how specs and perks.